In this video, we'll cover two D joints.
We'll look at what is the joint two RD component and different types of joint to DS.
Then we'll play with these inside the unity ed.
A joint is the component that maintains a relationship either positional or rotational with one or more
game objects.
You can attach your joints to either a game object with a rigid body.
This is common or to a fixed position in world space.
You can see the setup here in the picture.
We've got a game object with three different components the transform and rigid body as we've seen before,
and then we've added the joint component.
When should my game use joints?
Let's talk about some uses for joints.
Typically, physic joints are useful in gaming to maintain a relationship, either positional or rotational
between two or more game objects.
Use joints to mimic reality or to add gameplay.
Imagine creating a hanging chain like the picture we see on the right there.
You can do that with several different game objects connected with hinge joints.
The hinge is very useful.
You could also create a bouncy wooden bridge or a door connected to a wall.
If you wanted a vehicle with suspension, you could use the spring joint and the wheel joint.
There are many types of joints in 2D.
Let's talk about a few of the types.
First of all, there's distance joint to DX.
This is a very simple joint that maintains a certain relationship between two game objects.
That relationship could be the distance between their positions.
It's similar to parenting one game object under another only you don't have this restriction of parenting.
The hinge joint two d fixes a game object to a point in space and allows rotation.
You can think of a bridge like the image in the lower right or a typical door that opens and closes
on a hinge.
There's many types of joints, so how strong is a joint?
It's possible to break joints.
There's something called a constraint, which is a rule which the joint will try to follow.
Some constraints limit behavior such as ensuring a rigid body stays in a certain position.
When the rule is broken temporarily, the joint will apply corrective forces so it can again follow.
The rule breaking is possible when the corrective force needed is too great.
The joint will permanently break the individual joints, stops working forever in your game.
You have to stop and start the scene or the game in order to have it work again.
Excessive linear force is called a brake force.
Excessive torque force is called a brake torque.
The brake force property, it's set to infinity by default so that the joint will never break to allow
breakage, set it to a lower finite value.
For example, 5000.
Sometimes we want our joints to break.
Now why?
First of all, maybe we're mimicking something in reality that is not infinitely strong and we want
it to break or breaking could add to your gameplay experience.
Perhaps your character swings on a chain, but if you swings too strongly, the chain will break.
Let's do some demos together.
The hinge joint to begin scene will create five planks for a bouncy wooden bridge will create a hinge
joint.
Two rd between each plank will create a hinge joint to RD at each end of the bridge to hold it to the
columns.
And then we'll play the scene and see how it goes.
A bonus assignment.
If you want to get deeper into learning about joints, take a look at this scene.
The target joint to begin.
Create a target joint to DH on the crate.
Create your own script called something like Target Joint follows Mouse Play the scene, move your mouse
and observe the result.
Did you get the crate to follow the mouse?
You can set the brake force to 5000 to break the joint if you want help or you want to see the finished
result or the created script of Target Joint follows Mouse.
Take a look at the target joint to DH underscore complete scene.
Everything's there for you to take a look at.
Let's open up our next scene, the hinge joint to begin.
Here we have a ground set up with a couple of columns.
We're going to add a new plank.
Duplicate it five times and use the hinge joint to RD to make a wooden bridge.
Under the Planck sprite will add the rigid body and the collider and the hinge joint.
We'll set the hinge joints anchor to its left side.
We'll place one plank far to the left and then we'll duplicate five times total.
So we have some on the right.
The leftmost plank will leave its connected rigid body set to none, so it's anchored in space for the
others will connect to its nearest neighbor on the left.
And for the rightmost plank, we'll add a second hinge joint hinging it to space.
And adjusting its anchor to the right side.
Let's add some extras.
And give it a try.
In the next video, we'll look at physics for unity sprite shape.